# CraiNex
The Cranial Nerve (CN) examination is a fundamental procedure with applicability in various medical specialties. Ranging from primary care and internal medicine to more specialized Neurology and ENT (Ears, Nose, and Throat), this procedure is conducted by a multitude of physicians with varying nerve testing needs. The standard equipment used to test each of the relevant cranial nerves includes materials of different scents for the olfactory nerve (CN I), a Snellen eye chart, and an eye cover for the optic nerve (CN II), an object to follow, such as a pen, for the oculomotor, trochlear, and abducens nerve (CN III, IV, and VI), two objects to test soft and sharp discrimination for the trigeminal nerve (CN V), and lastly a tuning fork for the vestibulocochlear nerve (CN VIII) (Reese et. al., 2023). Current practice relies on a variety of tools that can be cumbersome for portability or spread out and improvised in the bedside environment. Crainex, provides a 3D printable version of this tool open and accessible to all practitioners for their examination needs with instructions for assembly. 

Physicians may perform a more comprehensive neurological exam, which includes the Cranial Nerve exam. In the sensory portion of this examination, a patient’s ability to perceive pain is assessed with a mildly sharp object, a blunt object, and a soft object (Shahrokhi & Asuncion, 2023). Temperature is tested with a cold object, such as a tuning fork (Newman, 2023); however, anecdotal experience has shown that handling a tuning fork may increase its base temperature and, therefore, interfere with accurate testing.

As evidenced above, sections of Neurological testing and Cranial Nerve testing require a variety of sparse materials. Common clinical practice involves using a cue tip broken in half for sharp and dull sensation testing, and a piece of cotton for soft sensation testing. Large tuning forks may be unavailable, difficult to find, and handling may render it less ideal for temperature testing. 

To address the need for a compact, all-in-one, practical solution, we propose CraiNex. The layout of this device is akin to that of a multitool, where a light, a sharp end, a blunt end, and a small compartment to load with multiple cotton balls. A small, 440Hz tuning fork is held on one side and a retractable Snellen chart on the other. The material of at least the blunt end tool will be metal and contain a heating element, thus allowing this tool to test temperature. 

Prototyping began with a conceptualization after identifying the need for condensing the tools for CN examination as the current operating procedure relies on improvising with whatever tools are available at the bedside. Then, utilizing FreeCAD, the first prototype was digitally assembled and printed with an Ultimaker 3D printer and Polylactic Acid (PLA). Its resultant dimensions were 8 inches in length, 3 inches in width, and 1.25 inches in depth. Additional designing and modification of 3 subsequent iterations resulted in a device 5.5 inches in length, 1 inch in width, and 0.75 inches in depth. Once a retractable Snellen chart is found or created, and the optimal wire placement is determined, the CraiNex device CAD engineering drawings, a version will be manufactured in metal. Our vision involves conducting a clinical trial in the near future for testing the safety and efficacy of this tool in the clinic. All clinical testing will be overseen by our medical Institutional Review Board (IRB).

The CraiNex device offers an efficient, portable, all-in-one solution for cranial nerve and sensory testing, a tool utilizable across different specialties and in a variety of situations. 

Reese, V., Das, J. M., & Khalili, Y. al. (2023). Cranial Nerve Testing. Electroencephalography and Clinical Neurophysiology, 87(2), S18. https://doi.org/10.1016/0013-4694(93)90917-k
Shahrokhi, M., & Asuncion, R. M. D. (2023). Neurologic Exam. Journal of Equine Veterinary Science, 23(11), 484–492. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jevs.2003.10.013
Newman, G. (2023). How to Assess the Cranial Nerves - Neurologic Disorders. In M. C. Levin (Ed.), Introduction to Neurologic Examination. Merck Manual Professional Edition. https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/neurologic-disorders/neurologic-examination/how-to-assess-the-cranial-nerves
